fifteen clear signs that your phone was
hacked we often see our smartphones as
are secured digital havens we use them
to keep our most personal information
from pictures to credit card details
some people even save their passwords in
notes that's a bit too much right you
probably have all your text and email
communication including work stuff based
or synchronized on your phone if you
think it is your private zone you may be
very wrong so far there is no such
device that can't be hacked to reduce
the potential risks we figured out three
things the ways your phone can be hacked
how to recognize them and how to protect
your phone from hackers let's start with
the first important question and see how
your phone can be hacked the easiest way
is by taking possession of your phone
for a few minutes and installing spy
apps such as spy phone app spies II or
spy era these apps are basically mobile
trackers that record the incoming and
outgoing phone calls and text messages
they can track GPS location online
activity and communication going on
whatsapp Facebook viber and Skype their
creators say these apps can bring peace
of mind to parents and help business
people monitor their staff if only or
just that in reality these apps are
often used by those who don't care about
the safety of others
via an unprotected Wi-Fi network in a
cafe or airport yes it's that easy we
all love finding free Wi-Fi spots at
airports and restaurants especially when
we travel have you ever used free Wi-Fi
click thumbs up if you have well with
the means of public Wi-Fi you share all
your traffic with everyone around you
think of it next time you want to check
in somewhere exotic it is worth waiting
till you reach a more reliable network
when charging your phone via an unknown
USB even in an airplane or a car there
is a risk that all your data will be
revealed and transferred different
smartphones have different security
features so not all of them share the
same amount of information when
connected to a PC but they can give away
your device name in tight serial number
its manufacturer operating and file
system information and electronic chip
ID that's a lot of information that can
be used against you SMS phishing this
happens when you receive a message with
a link saying that it is for example
your bank statement a money transfer or
your photos so you click it download the
file and then reveal all your phone's
contents to hackers with the help of
signaling system 7 or SS 7 used by the
majority of telephone stations all over
the world
hackers can read your text messages
listen to your phone calls and track
your cell phone locations but if you're
not a celebrity there's nothing to worry
about
you see there are many ways hackers can
mess with your phone now it is time to
answer the question we all care about
how to recognize that your phone is
hacked number 15
you find new apps on your phone and you
did not install them yourself
sometimes phone manufacturers and
service providers can actually install
new apps on your phone as you update it
but it is better to be safe than sorry
so you have to make sure the apps are
legit
you can google search them and see what
other users or better yet reliable
websites say about the apps if it was
neither the manufacturer nor you who
installed the app it must have been
hackers number 14 some apps stopped
working like they used to while new apps
you never installed are doing just fine
on your phone your old apps are in
trouble something is interfering with
their proper functionality and it is
most likely some malware on your phone
number 13 your phone has suddenly
started to run out of juice very quickly
if you noticed your phone's battery
lifespan has become way too short it
must be for a reason this can happen
when there is an unknown app running on
your phone such apps or an in background
mode without notice so you don't even
have to start them but they still take
away your phone's energy number 12 your
smartphone seems slower than it used to
be we often think slower operation speed
is the reason of our phones old age in
fact just like shorter battery life it
can be caused by malware running in the
background on your phone those bad apps
transfer data from your phone so it's
performance drops a lot a smartphone is
smart but hackers are sometimes even
smarter number 11 your phone gets warm
your phone gets warm even when you don't
make a call or work with it you're
probably used to feeling the warm touch
of your communication tool and you might
even like it especially when it gets
cold
but warming up for no reason is not a
good sign again it means there is an
unknown app making your phone work so
hard that it warms up number 10 your
phone reboots itself
switches off dials numbers or starts
applications you might like to believe
self rebooting or dialing numbers is the
result of paranormal activity and you're
about to call Ghostbusters sorry to tell
you this but if it's not a system
breakdown that
could be tapping number nine
unknown phone numbers appear in your
recent calls and it costs you
hackers can proxy through your device to
make expensive international phone calls
they can also use your infected device
to make calls to companies which charge
for them of course they don't actually
call overseas themselves they offer this
paid service to their customers so they
get profits number eight your phone is
sending and receiving strange text
messages just like unknown numbers in
your recent calls you can find text
messages you did not actually send from
your phone it can also happen to your
email if you are using it from your
phone if you don't notice it yourself
your friends or colleagues might tell
you about it when they receive weird
messages from you do not ignore it
number seven you cannot switch off your
device as you are trying to switch your
device off it starts opening different
apps increasing the lighting and so on
it is very wrong and it is most likely
not the manufacturers fault
number six there are noises or echoes
during calls if you hear noises or echo
during calls and you haven't had them in
this location before it means someone
else has access to your phone they might
be tracking your phone and listening to
your conversation this very second
number five websites appear different
than before in your mobile browser it
can be a sign that someone has installed
malware on your phone it can be reading
your online communication and tracking
your activities it's it's somewhere
between your browser and the internet
and stops the sites from displaying
normally
number four you noticed an increased use
of mobile data if you have a data
monitoring app you can sometimes see
your mobile data usage growing way too
fast it can cost extra charges if you
pay for a certain amount of traffic per
month and it is one of the signs your
phone is not only used by you you can
also try finding detailed app traffic
usage in your phone settings it tells us
exactly how much mobile data each of
your apps is using you recently
installed that app from a new source and
it is eating your data like crazy that
app could be malware delete it number
three pop-ups start appearing on your
device out of nowhere you probably see
it a lot on your computer unless you
have a good antivirus software you are
informed that you just won the lottery
or a new iPhone all you have to do is
click one button and it's yours
such pop-ups on your phone are likely
produced by malware you don't do what
they are telling you to do number two
email sent from your phone are blocked
by spam filters it can be assigned a
third party is reading your emails how
if they got control over your phone it
could have changed your email
configuration to send all your mails via
some unauthorized server hackers
probably have direct access to that
server number one you can't make calls
or they're being dropped
if you experience calls being dropped
the inability to make calls at times
when you appear to have good signal
strength or strange noises occurring
during your phone conversations
something may be amiss normally these
problems are indicative of technical
issues unrelated to a breach but that is
not always the case
so if you notice these symptoms shortly
after you took some action that you now
regret you may wish to consider whether
you need to take corrective action
what should you do if you see any of
these signs on your phone
try running mobile anti-malware software
delete all the apps you have not
installed and unreliable apps getting
too much traffic if it is possible you
can also reset your phone and go back to
its original settings if that does not
seem enough to you consult a
professional we all know prevention is
better than cure so here's what you can
do to protect your phone from being
hacked if you receive a message with a
link and you cannot see the full URL
never open it if you charge your phone
via an unknown computer when connected
choose only charging don't use the
remember passwords function switch off
the automatic connection to public Wi-Fi
networks instead choose them manually
one more thing about Wi-Fi networks
avoid networks with suspicious names
such as free internet or Wi-Fi free
choose those which are protected with a
password especially if you are somewhere
like a cafe
don't make online purchases or fund
transfers on public Wi-Fi networks if
you use Android install a reliable
antivirus program and of course add a
password to your phone we hope you found
this video you